[bazel] Example (#3474)
conan-io/docs: examples/tools/google/bazeltoolchain/build_simple_bazel_project.rst

.. _examples_tools_bazel_toolchain_build_simple_bazel_project:

Build a simple Bazel project using Conan
========================================

> In this example, we are going to create a string formatter application

Reviewer: I'd change the "string formatting app" to "a Hello World program" wording to better reflect the simplicity of the built program. Otherwise it seems to me line "string formatting" app will have more contents that might scare readers. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I agree

that uses one of the most popular C++ libraries: `fmt <https://fmt.dev/latest/index.html/>`_.

.. note::

    This example is based on the main :ref:`Build a simple CMake project using Conan<consuming_packages_build_simple_cmake_project>`
    tutorial. So we highly recommend reading it before trying out this one.

> We'll use Bazel as build system and helper tool in this case, so you should get it installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use Bazel as the build system and helper tool in this case, so you should get it installed
```

> before going forward with this example. See `how install Bazel <https://bazel.build/install>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before going forward with this example. See `how to install Bazel <https://bazel.build/install>`_.
```

> Please, at first, clone the sources to recreate this project, you can find them in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please, first clone the sources to recreate this project, you can find them in the
```
The rest of the tutorials seem to follow this wording

`examples2.0 repository <https://github.com/conan-io/examples2>`_ in GitHub:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/conan-io/examples2.git
    $ cd examples2/examples/tools/google/bazeltoolchain/string_formatter

We start from a very simple C++ language project with this structure:

.. code-block:: text

    .
    ├── WORKSPACE
    ├── conanfile.txt
    └── main
        ├── BUILD
        └── demo.cpp

This project contains a *WORKSPACE* file loading the Conan dependencies (in this case only ``fmt``)

> and a *main/BUILD* which defines the *demo* bazel target and it's in charge of using ``fmt`` to build a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a *main/BUILD* file which defines the *demo* bazel target and it's in charge of using ``fmt`` to build a
```

simple string formatter application.

> Let's have a look at each file content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's have a look at each file's content:
```

.. code-block:: cpp
    :caption: **main/demo.cpp**

    #include <cstdlib>
    #include <fmt/core.h>

    int main() {
        fmt::print("{} - The C++ Package Manager!\n", "Conan");
        return EXIT_SUCCESS;
    }

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: **WORKSPACE**

    load("@//conan:dependencies.bzl", "load_conan_dependencies")
    load_conan_dependencies()

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: **main/BUILD**

    load("@rules_cc//cc:defs.bzl", "cc_binary")

    cc_binary(
        name = "demo",
        srcs = ["demo.cpp"],
        deps = [
            "@fmt//:fmt"
        ],
    )

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: **conanfile.txt**

    [requires]
    fmt/10.1.1

    [generators]
    BazelDeps
    BazelToolchain

    [layout]
    bazel_layout

Conan uses the :ref:`conan_tools_google_bazeltoolchain` to generate a ``conan_bzl.rc`` file which defines the
``conan-config`` bazel-build configuration. This file and the configuration are passed as parameters to the
``bazel build`` command. Apart from that, Conan uses the :ref:`conan_tools_google_bazeldeps` generator

> to create all the bazel files (*[DEP]/BUILD.bazel* and *dependencies.bzl*) where are defined all the dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create all the bazel files (*[DEP]/BUILD.bazel* and *dependencies.bzl*) which define all the dependencies
```

simple string formatter application.

Let's have a look at each file content:

.. code-block:: cpp
    :caption: **main/demo.cpp**

    #include <cstdlib>
    #include <fmt/core.h>

    int main() {
        fmt::print("{} - The C++ Package Manager!\n", "Conan");
        return EXIT_SUCCESS;
    }

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: **WORKSPACE**

    load("@//conan:dependencies.bzl", "load_conan_dependencies")
    load_conan_dependencies()

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: **main/BUILD**

    load("@rules_cc//cc:defs.bzl", "cc_binary")

    cc_binary(
        name = "demo",
        srcs = ["demo.cpp"],
        deps = [
            "@fmt//:fmt"
        ],
    )

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: **conanfile.txt**

    [requires]
    fmt/10.1.1

    [generators]
    BazelDeps
    BazelToolchain

    [layout]
    bazel_layout

How it works? Conan uses the :ref:`conan_tools_google_bazeltoolchain` to generate a ``conan_bzl.rc`` file which defines the
``conan-config`` bazel-build configuration. This file and the configuration are read by the :ref:`conan_tools_google_bazel` build helper

> that executes the bazel commands under the hood. In the other hand, Conan uses the :ref:`conan_tools_google_bazeldeps` generator

Author: Good catch. Using Bazel build helper in my mind and not in this example 😞

.. _examples_tools_bazel_toolchain_build_simple_bazel_project:

> Build a simple Bazel project using Conan

Reviewer 3: I mean in the "Read more section" of the tutorial, so that users interested in other build systems other than cmake can find the example there. The original idea is that there would be an example for all the supported build systems.

> Build a simple Bazel project using Conan

Reviewer 3: Also, it would be good to link this example in other sections that talk about Bazel integration, like BazelToolchain, etc.

> Build a simple Bazel project using Conan

Author: Yeah, I just recalled to add also the integrations/bazel section
